James Michael Vrionis
jvrionis@ucsc.edu
1562232
Lab2: Addition and Subtraction 
Section 1A


Purpose:
To use sequential and combinational logic to sum or subtract a sequence of numbers together.

Procedure:
The 4 bit keypad sends its information to the mux which is where the 4bits are 
turned into 6 bits. The Register is made out of 6 D-Flip Flops. A switch on the first page
can clear the memory. Another switch on the first page allows switches the mode from 
adding (initial Position) to subtraction (2's compliment). More specifically it changes from
inverting the bits to addition which is how two's compliment is achieved. A 6 bit adder
has inputs from the keypad, multiplexer and the register. All of these moving parts come together
to dispaly numbers 1-9, A-F on two 7-segment LEDs. The clock on the front is basically the 
execute button, because it allows all these moving parts to work together to add and subtract
simple numbers. 

Questions:
1) This lab was really hard. The lack of directions really left me scrambling. I also had trouble 
with wires not really being connected even though I made sure that I connected them. I'm not 
sure if this is a problem with the very fine MML software or if it has been my error. Both 
of these things have caused me alot of frustration this weekend. I added LEDs to see if the 
correct signals were being sent to the correct place. I also had switches to check my adder, 
piece by piece, but erased them from the lab because I was literally running out of room.

2) When I subtracted a larger number from smaller number the output on the light was rather 
weird. It made a U, or what lookied like a U. Im not sure why it did this. I guess it could
be the lowest value it could display but I'm not entirely sure. I am going to ask the TA 
in my lab about it on Monday. If it was the lowest value the display had then that would 
make sense why it did that.

3) When I added two numbers that didnt fit the display seemed to loop back to zero and 
restart its count. Any time I went "over " the amount it did this. 





