James Vrionis 
M,W 9-11
Section 1A
Lab 3 

Lab Write-Up: Decimal to 2's Complement Conversion Program

Discuss algorithm(s) you implemented and issues doing so. Discuss any particular constructs in
assembly you made that made the problem easier to solve. Be sure to include how you used
your flowchart in the actually coding of your program.

Algorithms:
One algorithm I used was invert and add. i.e. the two’s compliment argorithm. This made the whole program possible.  
I also used a JSR (Jump to Subroutine) to prepare for multiplication, adding 0 to R1 then 0 to R3.  Making R6 my counter (to remind me R7 was not to be used)  I was ready
to Multiply with the following: make BRz then, ADD R1, R1, R3 which is necceary to multiply. Lastly, I would decrement R6 by one and set multiplication to to keep going
until it’s finished. The overall flow of the program is, Greet > START > load usin input > clear registers > Check if input is valid > if valid > perform operations on
input > change input to 2SC > Output back to console > repeat. The flow chart really helped me set up this struction. It would make figuring out a reason to terminate “my
loops” easier. This allowed me to establish the flow control that I have within my decimal to binary conversion program.

Purpose: 
To write a program that converts a decimal integer (that will read a character string and convert to an integer) into two’s compliment binary representation of that
integer. 

The lab was really challenging. I got LC-3 set up on my computer wrote program. Sadly, for a couple hours I was very confused, wondering why my program wouldn’t run. It
turns our I wasn’t compiling it. I forgot this necessary step, which led me to dissassemble my code many times over for no reason. I will never forget my struggles and know
am better prepared for lab 4. 

On a side note I was very impressed with the speed that this program runs at. This was my first time writing in assembly and it was fun. 
